# Correlation, linear regression model, and statistical significance between the Conductivity and TDS of clean drinking water

For this practice project, I imported a data set that I had found on Kaggle called "water_potability.csv" in order to find a correlation between two variables within the data set.

I started by prompting a summary, and the head of the data up to 5 columns. This is good practice to see what variables there are to work with and how complete the data is.

I followed this by checking the data type using str('data').

Following the viewing of the summary, I created a sample size of the population for the columns that I was interested in viewing from the data.
I set the seed to 1 so that my answers are reproducible, and selected a random sample of 50.

Next, I started obtaining some descriptive statistical data on both the conductivity and the total dissolved solids.
This consisted of the mean, median, variance, standard deviation, sum of squares, range, minimum, and maximum values.

Once my descriptive statistics are calculated, I plotted the data to view the linearity and whether or not the distribution of the sample set is normally distributed.

Upon my plotting I had viewed that both sets of data I had collected showed right skewed distributions, with the conductivity indicating a dip in the peak.
This dip in the peak indicates bimodal or multimodal distribution. This could indicate non homogeneity.

I moved on from this to see if I could find any statistical significance when looking at the correlation, and coefficient of Determination.
My correlation indicated that it was weak positive correlation between the two variables.
My coefficient of determination indicated a weak goodness of fit test.

After obtaining my confidence interval boundaries I had determined a few things about my data:
1. The correlation is clustered points, positive value, weak, and non linear.
2. That my population slope is captured within the confidence interval.
3. That my p-value is very close to zero indicating that we can reject a null hypothesis and state there is statistical significance between the predictor and response variables.
4. Correlation isn't by random chance alone.

Although my statistical tests and linear model didn't show exactly what I had hoped for, I do feel I have found some important and statistical analysis from the data set.
I would like to do a more in depth analysis following this project to see if I can narrow the sample populations down to categories first (local, regional, and national) to see if I can find a tigher grouping of points instead of a cluster to see if there is a better relationship between these to variables.
